Add private beta LLM Gateway docs [closes ENT-1059] (#3999)
langchain-ai/docs: src/langsmith/llm-gateway-admin-setup.mdx

---
title: Admin setup
description: One-time organization setup to enable the LLM Gateway and grant user access.
hidden: true
---

<Note>
**Private beta:** The LLM Gateway is in private beta. [Sign up for the waitlist](https://www.langchain.com/langsmith-llm-gateway-waitlist) to get access.
</Note>

One-time setup to enable the LLM Gateway for your LangSmith [organization](/langsmith/administration-overview#organizations). [Organization admins](/langsmith/rbac#organization-admin) should complete this before individual users can route calls through the gateway.

## Prerequisites

You need [`organization:manage` permission](/langsmith/organization-workspace-operations) in LangSmith. [Step 3 Option A](/langsmith/llm-gateway-admin-setup#option-a-create-a-custom-workspace-role-recommended) also requires a plan that includes [RBAC](/langsmith/rbac) (custom roles).

## 1. Enable the LLM Gateway

During private beta, the gateway must be enabled for your organization by LangChain. Once you've been accepted into the beta, the `llm_gateway_enabled` feature flag will be turned on for your organization.

> At General Access, this will be a self-service setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At General Availability, this will be a self-service setting.
```

1. Create a new workspace role.
1. Grant it at minimum `gateway:invoke` and `workspaces:read`.
1. Assign users who need gateway access to this role.

Use this when you want to grant gateway access to specific users without giving them full workspace-admin privileges. This gives you the most control over who can use the gateway.

### Option B: Use the workspace admin role

No plan requirement.

The `WORKSPACE_ADMIN` role already includes both `gateway:invoke` and `workspaces:read` by default. Assign users who need gateway access to this role.

Use this if you don't need fine-grained access control, or if you don't have RBAC enabled.

## 4. Configure policies (optional)

Gateway policy management requires `organization:manage` permission.

Go to **Settings → Gateway → LLM Gateway** to create governance policies. You can configure:

- **Spend limits:** hard caps at the organization, workspace, API key, or user level. Refer to [Spend policies](/langsmith/llm-gateway-spend-policies).
- **PII and secrets redaction:** detect and redact sensitive data before it reaches the model. Refer to [PII and secrets redaction](/langsmith/llm-gateway-redaction).

> Policies are optional during initial setup. The gateway functions as a transparent proxy until you have configured policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Policies are optional during initial setup. The gateway will freely allow invocations until you have configured policies.
```

## 5. Distribute API keys to users

Create workspace-scoped [Service Keys](/langsmith/administration-overview#service-keys) for users who need gateway access. Each key should be attached to a role that includes `gateway:invoke` and `workspaces:read`.

Use workspace-scoped keys, not organization-scoped keys. See [API key scoping](/langsmith/llm-gateway-access#api-key-scoping) for details.

Share the key and the gateway endpoint with each user, or distribute them via MDM (mobile device management) for company-wide coding agent rollouts. For per-agent configuration instructions, refer to [Set up coding agents](/langsmith/llm-gateway-coding-agents).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Alternatively, you may ask your users to use new or existing [Personal Access Tokens](/langsmith/administration-overview#personal-access-tokens-pats).
```
